# Are occurrences of cities in books and tourism linked ?

We started our researches with data from Google Ngram Viewer. This search engine provides frequencies of words in a huge corpus gathering eight million of books between 1500 and 2012. We focused on the English corpus which contains half a trillion words. In order to spot cities names in these texts, we chose to analyze the 2-gram ‘to’. With this common locative preposition, we were pretty sure to spot a large amount of places. To sort out the word which follows the preposition ‘to’ we used GeoNames database which covers all countries and contains over eight million place names. GeoNames provides all cities and their alternative names, longitudes and latitudes, population and country code. With cleaned files from Google Ngram, we gathered all names and alternative names. Then, we had to link alternative names to the original to be able to count all the occurrences of a city per year. Because of the huge amount of different cities in the world, we decided to only consider the biggest: more than 100,000 inhabitants, it reduces the file to more than 6,000 cities worldwide.

Because we have spotted big differences over the years, we decided to draw a map to compare the number of occurrences of cities in the 1950’s and 2000’s. On these map, we can see the huge increase of appearance of cities all over the world. But what is interesting is that we can highlight the development of South East Asia (India, Chinese cost…) for example. Indeed, we can clearly see the increase of occurrences between these two decades. As our corpus is in English, it is not so surprising for India.

To go further, we thought about tourism and what makes people go visit a place. Either tourism creates documents talking about the visited places or talking about somewhere makes people go to it. We downloaded, from Worldbank, an open-data website, data about international tourism with the number of arrivals each year, between 1995 and 2008. A problem we met was that on Worldbank, the tourism was for a whole country and not for cities. In the GeoNames data we hopefully had a country code with 2 letters to link the city to its country. On Worldbank database, the country was referenced with a 3 letters code so we had to match them to be able to link these data.

Once we had the amount of arrivals in a country per year, we were able to compare it with its frequency in books. As we didn’t manage to make the Python script do it automatically, we have chosen several big countries and plotted, on Excel, the occurrences in literature per year depending on the number of arrivals (international tourism). We found correlation for certain countries but not for all. On the one hand, for Germany, United Arab Emirates, China and India, among others, the correlation coefficient (R²) is higher than 0.78 which shows a good correlation. While France, the United States of America, Thailand and Brazil have a correlation coefficient lower than 0.48. We noticed that the correlation coefficient is relatively bad when data varies little (constant number of visitors). We can’t conclude on this hypothesis because the period of time we studied for tourism is relatively short (1995-2008).

To go further on our analysis, we should have sought other n-gram with different locative prepositions such as ‘in’, ‘from’, ‘by’, ‘through’, in order to spot more cities in books. We could also extend our research to non-English corpus. To develop this idea about link between tourism and popularity of cities, we could diversify the sources: seek data on the internet such as social networks, review websites, articles in newspapers… We also could find tourism data from cities and not only from whole countries to be more precise on correlation between tourism and city name appearance in books. We thought about using data from the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) but it was not free of charge. With this source, we could have a wider period to expand our study and confirm or not our hypothesis.

We think that we can create a business with these data. With further studies and data analysis about tourism and cities popularities, we should be able to help territorial authorities to develop their attractiveness and promote their images. So we are targeting all actors linked with the tourism market: public organizations such as cities, regions, countries or the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), private tourism agencies and other tourism companies.